---
layout: default
title: Quickstart
nav_order: 2
permalink: /quickstart
---

# Quickstart
Welcome to the quickstart guide for ThreatWinds API! This guide is designed to help you get started with using our API to retrieve information on Cybersecurity threats and their interrelationships.

To make the most of ThreatWinds, it's crucial to have a clear idea of what you want to accomplish. To assist you in achieving your goals, we provide comprehensive documentation and usage guidelines for each of our APIs. This documentation includes detailed explanations of the various APIs available to you.

Before we dive in, it's important to note that you can test our APIs using our comprehensive API documentation. This documentation allows you to explore the API's capabilities and understand different queries, making it an invaluable resource as you begin working with the APIs.

### Restful API
* [Authentication API](/auth)
* [Search API](/search)
* [Analytics API](/analytics)
* [Ingest API](/ingest)

**Now, let's get started**

## Authentication
Authentication is a crucial aspect of using our APIs. It ensures that only authorized users have access to the data and helps to maintain the security and integrity of our system. To access the different endpoints and retrieve data, you need to authenticate using an Authorization header or a KeyPairs (API key and an API secret).

When building an entire application around an API, the usage of authorization headers becomes a common approach to control user sessions and ensure the security of the application.
Once the client is authenticated, the authorization header is included in the HTTP request headers to control the user's session. This header contains a unique token that is generated by the server and sent to the client as a means to identify the user's session. The authorization header remains valid as long as the user's session is active and has not expired, providing a secure and reliable method to maintain user sessions within the application.

For developers who are planning to use an API for their own services, the key pair authentication method is often the normal approach used to authenticate and authorize API requests. This method involves the use of an API key and secret key, which are unique identifiers that are provided to the client by the API provider. 

> Note: Both the authorization header and the keypair need to be verified before being used.


Example of Authorization header when you create a session:
```json
{
  ...,
  "bearer": "m5orsH7hqidILzwkGUcjf9gl93r9KqOj",
  ...
}
```

Example of KeyPair when you create a new one:
```json
{
  ...,
  "apiKey": "fq6JoEFTsxiXAl1cVxPDnK4emIQCwaUB",
  "apiSecret": "fq6JoEFTsxiXAl1cVxPDnK4emIQCwaUBfq6JoEFTsxiXAl1cVxPDnK4emIQCwaUB",
  ...
}
```

> If you choose to use the Authorization header for authentication, you do not need to include your API key and secret as query parameters in the request. Otherwise, if you include your API key and secret as query parameters, you do not need to use the Authorization header.

**Great!** You're now ready to start exploring the documentation and learn more about the ThreatWinds API.